README.md, before:

# qdl.js

## Development

```sh
bun install

# to add scripts like `qdl.js` and `simg2img.js` to your path
bun link
```

**Test**

Run tests in watch mode

```sh
bun test --watch
```

**Lint**

Check for linting problems

```sh
bun lint
```

You can also install the Biome extension for VS Code, Zed and IntelliJ-based editors.

**Build**

Bundles JS and generates type declarations

```sh
bun run build
```

## Linux instructions

### Web

On Linux systems, the Qualcomm device in QDL mode is automatically bound to the kernel's qcserial driver, which needs to
be unbound before the browser can access the device. This doesn't appear to be necessary in other environments like
Node.js and Bun.

```sh
# List all devices currently bound to qcserial
ls -l /sys/bus/usb/drivers/qcserial/ | grep '^l'
```

```sh
# Unbind any devices from the qcserial driver
for d in /sys/bus/usb/drivers/qcserial/*-*; do [ -e "$d" ] && echo -n "$(basename $d)" | sudo tee /sys/bus/usb/drivers/qcserial/unbind > /dev/null; done
```

After running the unbind command, verify no devices are bound to qcserial by running the first command again.

### Desktop

To fix USB permissions, create a file at `/etc/udev/rules.d/99-qualcomm-edl.rules` containing the following udev rule:
```
SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTR{idVendor}=="05c6", ATTR{idProduct}=="9008", MODE="0666"
```

For your udev rule changes to take effect, reboot or run:
```
sudo udevadm trigger --attr-match=subsystem=usb
```

Commit message:

feat: implement configurable logging system
- Add a dedicated logger module with 5 log levels (SILENT, ERROR, WARN, INFO, DEBUG)
- Support configuration via environment variable QDL_LOG_LEVEL
- Add command-line flag --log-level for controlling log verbosity
- Update all code to use the new logging system
- Add documentation in README about the logging system

README.md, after:

# qdl.js

## Development

```sh
bun install

# to add scripts like `qdl.js` and `simg2img.js` to your path
bun link
```

**Test**

Run tests in watch mode

```sh
bun test --watch
```

**Lint**

Check for linting problems

```sh
bun lint
```

You can also install the Biome extension for VS Code, Zed and IntelliJ-based editors.

**Build**

Bundles JS and generates type declarations

```sh
bun run build
```

## Logging

qdl.js includes a configurable logging system that allows you to control the verbosity of log messages. The following log levels are available, in order of increasing verbosity:

- `silent`: No log messages
- `error`: Only error messages
- `warn`: Error and warning messages
- `info`: Error, warning, and informational messages (default)
- `debug`: All messages, including detailed debug information

You can set the log level in three ways:

1. **Command line option**: Use the `--log-level` or `-l` flag when running qdl.js
   ```sh
   qdl.js --log-level debug flash system system.img
   ```

2. **Environment variable**: Set the `QDL_LOG_LEVEL` environment variable
   ```sh
   QDL_LOG_LEVEL=debug qdl.js flash system system.img
   ```

3. **Programmatically**: When using qdl.js as a library, you can set process.env.QDL_LOG_LEVEL before importing the package

## Linux instructions

### Web

On Linux systems, the Qualcomm device in QDL mode is automatically bound to the kernel's qcserial driver, which needs to
be unbound before the browser can access the device. This doesn't appear to be necessary in other environments like
Node.js and Bun.

```sh
# List all devices currently bound to qcserial
ls -l /sys/bus/usb/drivers/qcserial/ | grep '^l'
```

```sh
# Unbind any devices from the qcserial driver
for d in /sys/bus/usb/drivers/qcserial/*-*; do [ -e "$d" ] && echo -n "$(basename $d)" | sudo tee /sys/bus/usb/drivers/qcserial/unbind > /dev/null; done
```

After running the unbind command, verify no devices are bound to qcserial by running the first command again.

### Desktop

To fix USB permissions, create a file at `/etc/udev/rules.d/99-qualcomm-edl.rules` containing the following udev rule:
```
SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTR{idVendor}=="05c6", ATTR{idProduct}=="9008", MODE="0666"
```

For your udev rule changes to take effect, reboot or run:
```
sudo udevadm trigger --attr-match=subsystem=usb
```
